now Israel is said to be proposing a
two-month pause in fighting for the
release of all captives being held in
Gaza that's according to a report by
axios which says the deal has been
presented to Hamas through mediators The
Proposal would be made up of several
phases mediators from katar and Egypt
have been working for weeks to reach the
deal between Israel and Hamas well let's
speak to Stephanie DEA she joins me now
from occupied East Jerusalem Steph
there's obviously nothing official about
this deal but what do we know about this
proposal that's ostensibly on the
table yes it's now being picked up by
all Israeli media and what we have is
the bones of what seems to be a new
proposal by Israel um to Hamas uh the US
um Envoy Brett murk according to these
reports is already in Cairo to discuss
this deal and he'll be heading on to
Qatar of course Egypt and Qatar crucial
in the negotiation between the two sides
what do we know about the deal well
Israel is proposing a twomon pause in
the fighting this is a very long time
and then it's saying that the captives
should be released in phases so first of
all Hamas would be releasing those over
60 all women and those over 60 the
second phase would be Israeli female
soldiers and the men that Hamas deems as
non-s soldiers and then the third phase
would be uh the male soldiers and the
bodies because of course there are also
uh bodies that remain inside Gaza held
by not just Hamas but other groups uh as
well um and then also it specifies the
redeployment of Israeli soldiers away
from some urban areas uh to allow uh
Palestinians to be able to return home
of course the question mark is what do
they have to return to but certainly
this seems to be a new kind of deal the
bones at least of what they may be
discussing now Israel prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu is coming under a lot
of pressure to do more to bring the
captives back alive he has maintained
defiantly even until yesterday that the
fighting will not stop that the captives
will be brought back militarily but
you've had increasing pressure on the
streets you've had families of the
hostages storm the Israeli knesset the
Israeli Parliament they're camping
outside his home here in Jerusalem um so
it seems to be that there is some form
of Bones if you will Skeleton on the
table now for negotiations these are
early days but I think it's significant
we'll have to wait and see what kind of
compromises will be made on both sides
but certainly for talking about a
two-month pause in the fighting this is
a significant time but again early days
just the bones but it is a new deal um
that that is being talked about we
understand Stephanie de with that update
for us from occupied East Jerusalem
thanks Steph